Page 1:
  
  
 
                  
     
 
     
  
 
     
   
     
  
 
   
 
 
   
 
   
 
    
 
   
     
    
    
  
  
 
   
    
  
      
 
    
   
      
    
        
    
    
   
     
      
    
    
     
     
 
      
       
    
 
    
     
  
 
      
 
 
 
 Instructions for Completing the 
Medical Certification for Medicaid Long -Term Care Services and Patient Transfer Form 
1. The AHCA 5000-3008 form must be filled out in a complete and accurate mann er. 
2. If patient seeks eligibility for the Medicaid Institutional Care Program (ICP) or a Medicaid Home and 
Community -Based Services (HCBS) Waiver: 
•For the purposes of determining whether an individual meets the medical eligibility criteria, t he Comprehensive 
Assessment and Review for Long- Term Care Services ( CARES ) program requires all applicab le sections of 
this form be completed, however for Medicaid eligibility, CARES cannot accept this form if the items or 
sections marked by an asterisk ( *) are not completed . 
3. For Medicaid eligibility purposes, this form is good for one year from the date of the health care professional’s 
signature, unless there has been a significant change in the individual’s condition since the form was completed. 
CARES reserves the right to request new 3008’s in situations where there has been a significant change in the 
individuals condition or the form appears to be altered., 
NOTE : The AHCA 5000- 3008 is an optional patient transfer form. 
Page 1: Top of Page: *Patient’s Name, *Last 4 digits of the SSN and *DOB ( Date of Birth) (*Required items) 
A. *Patient Information: general demographic information about the patient, including primary language . 
B. *Sight/ *Hearing : note any visual impair ments and any auditory impairments . 
C. Decision Making Capacity ( Patient ): what is the decision- making capacity of the person listed as the patient ? 
D. *Emergency Contact: the names and phone numbers of the patient’s emergency contacts . 
E. *Medical Condition: *Primary diagnosis: List the diagnosis that is considered to be primary for the 
individual. *Other diagnoses will include any other medical conditions the individual has been diagnosed 
with. If the individual is hospitalized at the time of completion, list the primary diagnosis at discharge, 
reason for transfer, and any surgical procedures performed during the hospital stay . If not enough room, list 
the primary diagnosis here and list the others on a separate page. Attach a medication reconciliation form 
and/or medication list that accurately notes medication history and those medications to be continued or stopped. Mandatory discussion of medications must be included in hand -off communication. (See section 
N.) 
F. Infection Control Issues : note immunizations provided, PPD status, whether isolation precautions are required, 
and whether patient has any underlying infection. 
G. *Patient Risk Alerts : *note any areas of risk, use of restraints , and allergies . 
H. Advance Care Planning: note and attach any relevant documentation regarding patient ’s health care wishes . 
I. Transferred From : information on the facility transferring the patient, including facility name, transfer date, unit, 
the phone and fax number s for that unit, the name of the discharge nurse and his/her direct contact number . The 
admit date and time are critical for determining Medicare coverage in the skilled nursing facility . The 
discharge date and time are important to the hospital for inpatient billing. 
J. Transferred To : the name of the skilled nursing facility or other receiving facility where the patient is being 
transferred to, including the address , phone, and fax number s. 
K. Physician Contacts : the name and phone number of the patient’s primary care physician and, if applicable, the 
name and phone number of the hospitalist treating the patient during the recent hospital stay . 
L. Time Sensitive Condition Specific Information : note whether patient has any specific critical conditions that 
require specialized care, or time sensitive medications due near time of transfer, and whether script was sent for 
controlled substance (if patient requires controlled substance, script must be sent with patient) . 
M. Pain Assessment : note the patient’s pain level and when medication was last administered, if applicable . 
N. *Following Reports Attached: any of the following completed or available reports must be indicated, and 
attached to the AHCA MedServ -3008 form if appropriate and available (Medication list is not optional , and must be 
attached): 
•Physician Orders; Discharge Summary; Medication Reconciliation; Discharge Medication List ; PASRR Forms: 
completed PASRR Level I and Level II (if required) – patient may not be admitted to a nursing facility prior 
to completion and authorization given for nursing facility placement; Social and Behavioral History ; 
Treatment orders (indicate if wound care is included) ; Lab reports ; X-rays; EKG ; CT Scan ; MRI; History & 
Physical. 
•*All Medications: If additional space is required to list all medications, attach a medications list to this form. 
AHCA Form 5000- 3008, (JUN 2016), incorporated by reference in Rule 59G -1.045, F.A.C. Page 1 of 3 

Page 2:
  
  
 
                      
 
   
      
 
        
 
     
   
         
    
  
    
     
      
  
  
    
 
    
    
  
    
      
  
     
      
 
     
 
 
   
  
  
 
   
 
   
     
   
 
  
   
   
  
 
    
      
 
     
  
    
    
  
 
    
 
 
     
  
 Instructions for Completing the 
Medical Certification for Medicaid Long -Term Care Services and Patient Transfer Form 
Page 2- Top of Page: *Patient’s Name, *Last 4 digits of the SSN and *DOB ( Date of Birth) (*Required items) 
O. Vital Signs : note vital signs along with the date and time taken. 
P. *Patient Health Status : current state of patient as it relates to notation on *bladder and *bowel , as well as 
immunizations provided . 
Q. *Nutrition / Hydration: list any special *dietary instructions, tube feeding information, supplements , and eating 
capabilities . 
R. Treatments and Frequency : note which treatments are prescribed and the frequency . 
S. *Physical Function: check physical capabilities of patient . 
T. Skin Care – Stage & Assessment : note by number on the diagram the locations of any wounds , and list the 
corresponding stages for each location. List any other lesions or wounds. 
U. *Mental / Cognitive Status at Transfer : indicate the cognitive status of the patient . 
V. Treatment Devices : check if other devices are in place, and indicate corresponding dates, types, and settings . 
W. Personal Items : check any personal items that are being sent with the patient; 
X. Comments : add any comments here, sign , and print name; this is an optional field; may be signed by a nurse or 
social worker who enters the comments . 
Y. *Physician Certification : this section must be completed and signed by a Florida licensed doctor of medicine or 
osteopathy, who holds a valid and active license pursuant to Chapters 458 and 459, Florida Statutes , and must 
include the physician’s printed name, title, Florida Medical License number, and contact telephone number . 
NOTE : If within their scope of practice, this section may be signed by an advanced registered nurse practitioner 
(ARNP ) who holds a valid and active license pursuant to Chapter 464, Florida Statutes . 
NOTE : If delegated by the supervising physician in accordance with Chapters 458 and 459, Florida Statutes , and 
applicable Florida Administrative Code rules, this section may be signed by a physician’s assistant ( PA). 
NOTE : If the physician, ARNP, or PA is not licensed by the State of Florida but is similarly and appropriately 
licensed by the United States military, Veteran’s Affairs (VA), or another state in the United States of 
America, a copy of the physician, ARNP, or PA’s valid and current license must accompany the 3008 form. 
NOTE : Any and all items that apply should be checked as appropriate; the physician, ARNP or PA should: 
certify whether nursing facility services are required, and if the individual requires those services for the condition for which he/she received care during the hospitalization; 
indicate whether the individual is in a community setting and is seeking long- term care services 
through a Medicaid Home and Community -Based Services (HCBS) Waiver, in lieu of certifying the 
need for nursing facility placement; 
note the rehabilitation potential; and 
include the effective date of the onset of the medical condition which requires nursing facility services. NOTE : If this is left blank , CARES will use the physician /ARNP /PA signature date for 
medical eligibility purposes for Medicaid programs . 
Z. Person Completing Form : include the printed name and contact telephone number of the person completing the 
form. This is only required when the medical professional signing the form did not complete the form. Only 
individuals working with the medical professional who signed the form are allowed to complete this form. 
Additional Note s: 
1. Patient Name, last 4 digits of the SSN, and DOB must be completed on both pages. 
WHY ARE WE ASKING FOR YOUR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER (SSN)? Federal law permits the State to 
use your social security number for screening and referral to programs or services that may be appropriate for you. 42 CFR § 435.910. We use the number to create a unique record for every individual 
that we serve, and the SSN ensures that every person we serve is identified correctly so that services are provided appropriately. Any information the State collects will remain confidential and protected under penalty of law. We will not use it or give it out for any other reason unless you have signed a separate 
consent form that releases us to do so or if required by law. 
2. If this form is being used as a hospital transfer form, any area that does not pertain to the client’s current condition should be marked N/A. 
3. Any section that can be addressed through documents should include the documents with the form and 
marked “See Attached” for the section. 
AHCA Form 5000- 3008, (JUN 2016), incorporated by reference in Rule 59G -1.045, F.A.C. Page 2 of 3 

Page 3:
  
  
 
                     
       
          
  
      
 
 Instructions for Completing the 
Medical Certification for Medicaid Long -Term Care Services and Patient Transfer Form 
4. Any changes after the provider has signed the form must be made by either the individual who signed the 
form (physician, ARNP, or PA) or another physician, PA, or ARNP. If someone other than the physician, 
ARNP, or PA makes a change, the physician, ARNP, or PA must also initial the change. If a provider other 
than the original provider makes changes they will initial any changes/additions, add their name , 
signature, Florida License number, and contact phone information in Section X. 
AHCA Form 5000- 3008, (JUN 2016), incorporated by reference in Rule 59G -1.045, F.A.C. Page 3 of 3 

Page 4:
 
   
      
 
 
  
 
   
   
 
  
     
 *A. PATIENT INFORMATION
*Gender: Male Female 
*Hispanic Ethnicity: Yes No 
*Race: White Black Other: 
*Language:
C.DECISION MAKING CAPACITY (PATIENT)
Capable to make healthcare decisions Requires a surrogate
*
D. EMERGENCY CONTACT
Name: 
Phone: 
Not known 
MRSA Site: 
VRE Site: 
ESBL Site: 
MDROSite: 
C-Diff Site:
Other: Site: 
Isolation Precautions: None 
Contact Droplet Airborne 
*G. PATIENT RISK ALERTS
*None Known *Harm to self *Difficulty swallowing
*Elopement *Harm to others *Seizures
*Pressure Ulcers *Falls *Other:
RESTRAINTS: Yes No 
Types: 
Reasons for use: 
ALLERGIES: None Known Yes, List below: 
Latex Allergy: Yes No Dye Allergy/Reaction: Yes No 
H. ADVANCE CARE PLANNING
Please ATTACH any relevant documentation:
Advance Directive Yes No 
Living Will Yes No 
DO NOT Resuscitate (DNR) Yes No 
DO NOT Intubate Yes No 
DO NOT Hospitalize Yes No 
No Artificial Feeding Yes No 
Hospice Yes No I. TRANSFERRED FROM
Facility Name:
Date: Unit: 
Phone: Fax: 
Discharge 
Nurse: Phone: 
Admit Date: Discharge Date :
Discharge Time: Admit Time :
J. TRANSFERRED TO
Facility Name:
Address 1: Address 2: 
Phone: Fax: 
K. PHYSICIAN CONTACTS
Primary Care Name:
Phone: 
Hospitalist Name: 
Phone: 
L. TIME SENSITIVE CONDITION SPECIFIC INFORM
ATION
Medication due near time of transfer / list last time administered
Script sent for controlled substances (attached): Yes No 
Anticoagulants Date: Time: 
Antibiotics Date: Time: 
Insulin Date: Time: 
Other: Date: Time: 
Has CHF diagnosis: Yes No 
If yes; new/worsened CHF present on admission? 
Yes No 
Last echocardiogram: Date: LVEF % 
On a proton pump inhibitor? Yes No 
If yes, was it for: In-hospital prophylaxis and can be 
discontinued 
Specific diagnosis: 
On one or more antibiotics? Yes No 
If yes, specify reason(s): 
Any critical lab or diagnostic test pending 
at the time of discharge? Yes No 
If yes, please list: 
Time: 
Physicians Orders Treatment Orders 
Discharge Summary Includes Wound Care 
Medicatio nReconciliatio n Lab reports 
Discharge Medication List X-ray EKG 
PASRR Forms CT Scan MRI 
Social and Behavioral History 
*ALL MEDICA TIONS: (MUSTATTACH LIST)MEDICAL CERTIFICATION FOR MEDICAID LONG-TERM CARE SERVICES AND PA TIENT TRANSFER FORM
*Patient Name:
EnglishOther:
*B. SIGHT HEARING 
NormalImpaired Deaf NormalImpaired
Blind Hearing Aid L R
Name:
Phone:
*E. MEDICAL CONDITION
*Primary diagnosis:
*Other diagnoses:
If Hospitalized:
Primary diagnosis at discharge:
Reason for transfer:
Surgical procedures performed:
F. INFECTION CONTROL ISSUES
PPD Status: Positive Negative
Screening date:
Associated Infections/resistant organisms:*DOB: *Last 4 SSN:
AMPM AMPM
AMPM
AMPM
AMPM
AMPM
M.PAIN ASSESSMENT:
Pain Level (between 0 - 10):
AM
Last administered: Date: PM
*N. FOLLOWING REPORTS ATTACHED
History & Physical
AHCA Form 5000-3008, ________________ , incorporated by reference in Rule 59G-1.045, F.A.C. *Data required for Medicaid

Page 5:
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
       
    
   
 
  
  MEDICAL CERTIFICA TION FOR MEDICAID LONG-TERM CARE SERVICES AND P ATIENT TRANSFER FORM 
*Patient Name: *DOB: 
O. VITAL SIGNS 
Date: Time Taken: T. SKIN CARE – STAGE & ASSESSMENT 
Pressure Ulcers 
(Indicate stage and location(s) of lesions using corresponding number: 
1. 
2 
3. 
List any other lesions or wounds: HT: WT: 
Temp: BP: 
HR: RR: Sp02: 
*P. PATIENT HEALTH ST ATUS 
*Bladder: Continent Incontinent 
Ostomy Catheter Type: date inserted :
Foley Catheter: Yes No 
Indications for use: 
Urinary retention due to: 
Monitoring intake and output 
Skin Condition: 
Other: 
Yes No 
Influenza: Yes No Date: 
Pneumococcal: Yes No Date: 
*Q. NUTRITION / HYDRATION 
*Dietary Instructions: Type: 
Internal Cardiac Defibrillator Pacemaker 
Wound Vac 
Other: 
Respiratory - Delivery Device: CPAP BiPAP 
Nebulizer Other: Nasal Cannula 
Mask: Type 
Oxygen - liters: % PRN Continuous 
Trach Size: Type: 
Ventilator Settings: 
Suction 
W. PERSONAL ITEMS 
Artificial Eye Prosthetic Walker 
Contacts Cane Other 
Eyeglasses Crutches 
Dentures Hearing Aids 
U L Partial L R Tube Feeding: G-tube J-tube PEG 
Insertion Date: 
Supplements (type): TPN Other Supplements: 
Eating: Self Assistance Difficulty Swallowing 
R. TREATMENTS AND FREQUENCY 
PT - Frequency: 
OT - Frequency: 
Speech - Frequency: 
Dialysis - Frequency: 
*S. PHYSICAL FUNCTION Ambulation: 
*Transfer: 
Not ambulatory Self 
Ambulates independently Assistance 
Ambulates with assistance 1 Assistant 
Ambulates with assistive device 2 Assistants X. COMMENTS (Optional )
Devices: Weight-bearing: 
Wheelchair (type): Left: 
Appliances: Full Partial None Signature:
Prosthesis: Right: 
Lifting Device: Full Partial None Printed Name: *Last 4 SSN:
AMPM
FEETINCHES
/
If yes, date inserted:
Attempt to remove catheter made in hospital? 
Date Removed: 
*Bowel: Ostomy Continent Incontinent 
Date of Last BM: 
Immunization status: 
*Ambulation:*U. MENTAL / COGNITIVE STATUS AT TRANSFER
Alert, oriented, follows instructions
Alert, disoriented, but can follow simple instructions Alert, disoriented, and cannot follow simple instructions Not Alert
V.TREATMENT DEVICES
Heparin Lock - Date changed:
IV / PICC / Portacath Access - Date inserted:
*Y.PHYSICIAN CERTIFICATION 
*I certify the individual requires nursing facility (NF) services. 
The individual received care for this condition during hospitalization .
*I certify the individual is in need of Medicaid Waiver Services in lieu of nursing facility placement .Rehab Potential (check one)
Good Fair Poor 
*Effective date of medical condition : *Physician/ARNP/PA License #:
*Physician/ARNP/PA Signature:
*Printed Physician/ARNP/PA Name & Title:*Date: 
*Phone Number: 
Z.PERSON COMPLETING FORM
Name:Date: Phone Number: 
AHCA Form 5000-3008, ________________ , incorporated by reference in Rule 59G-1.045, F.A.C. *Section srequire dforMedicai d

